At the end of each year, I look back on the things I did during the year and reflect on how the different experiences and skill sets have shaped who I am. Reflection not only allows me to summarize how I utilized my time, but it also allows me to find areas to improve on, and in the end, plan a roadmap of what I would like to do in the coming year. During the end of November last year, I made a commitment to take my skills to the next level. Specifically, these included my skills in violin, as I want music to always be a part of who I was, math, because I love finding clever solutions to seemingly difficult problems, engineering, as I love designing and creating things, and computer science, because I love creating apps and programs that make things easier. Early this year, I checked off violin when I placed second in American Protegé’s Internation Piano and Strings competition, followed by an invitation to play at Carnegie Hall. As I moved on to the next skill to work on, I found that CMU’s Pre-college programs offered NHSGA, which would enhance my skills in programming, Architecture, which would help build my engineering skills, and the Summer Session program, which would be an all of the above option to my list of skills. From CMU’s Pre-college programs, I hope to further my knowledge in math and programming, and to also find friends from around the world that have similar interests as myself. 

Through the different courses from CMU, I would be able to learn and further develop my understanding in different areas that I am self-taught in. Whether it be creating games through YouTube tutorials, finding articles for making bridges and boomilevers in Science Olympiad, asking and answering questions on AoPS Competition Math forums, or studying music theory from my parent’s college textbooks, these courses would help me create a stronger structure in my understanding of studies that I have been so intrigued by as to self-teach them. This would be because from CMU’s programs, I would be able to learn from world-famous, super-experienced instructors that would be able to take my knowledge in game design, architecture, or the different subjects in school to the next level. 

By finding friends in different environments with a common passion, I would gain a better perspective of how different people think and approach certain problems. I find this important because although my friends and I usually share a common interest or passion, whether it be competing in math, writing programs, or studying music, because we live in very similar environments, we tend to attend the same programs and compete in the same events, and so on. But, with friends from different environments, I would learn how they express and use their passions. 

I know that CMU’s Pre-College programs would not only make my summer fun, but would also make me a better person.

