Rigorous courses do not only challenge a student’s knowledge and capacity to retain information, but more so in testing the student’s study ethics and their ability to set goals and follow through. Although there is a lot of variety among students in a class, from what I have experienced, the class can be divided into three groups. The first group consists of a handful of students that learn and grip onto new ideas and concepts very quickly. These students usually lead the class and do not require as much studying to succeed in the classroom. However, because they learn so quickly without the need for much studying, they require more effort to retain information for longer periods of time. Now, the second group consists of the majority of students. These students do not learn as quickly as the first group, but, because they need to put in the time and effort to keep up with the pace of the class, they retain what they learn. Finally, the third group. This group is rather unique as it consists of students that are like a mix of the first two groups. They get an idea for what’s going on, but they also need to constantly review and reread sections to keep up with the class. These students are not always at the top half of the class, as their performance is usually a direct reflection of how frequently they review topics. From my reflection of myself, I am part of the third group of students. I have tried a variety of hobbies, most of them being learnt from free videos on YouTube. For example, I learned to play bass from YouTube videos, and am now playing at church. From watching people improvise on songs, I wanted to learn how it was humanly possible to compose on the spot, and learned about the different parts of music theory and improvisation through YouTube. During a vacation, after watching a magician, I learned different card tricks and flourishes, some of which I have performed in front of people. Now, although I was able to grasp onto the different techniques for these skills, without constantly practicing, I also forget them surprisingly fast. Now, you’re probably asking how this has prepared me for a challenging course from a prestigious school. My answer to that would be that I am able to self-analyze and reflect on my weaknesses like I did in finding out how I learn and how others learn in a classroom. Without doing this, I would not have been able to succeed in my classes, as I would not have known the root cause of me forgetting things I thought I knew. However, because I know how I learn things, I was able to consistently make flashcards and short notes on my phone to constantly review things every chance I had.
