Architecture is not just a physical environment in which people live in or interact in, but it shows a reflection of the architect’s view on culture. This is important to keep in mind when admiring or analyzing a piece of architecture, as it is crucial to question why each part is the way it is. Whether its an old log cabin, reflecting the hardships of living on the frontier, or the White House, representing the freedoms people sought after, as it was modeled after an Irish building, and finalized by an Irish immigrant, architecture serves as a medium people use to remind the future about the current cultures. However, the interesting thing is that architecture can also change as culture changes. For example, Roosevelt contributed and made an addition to the architecture of the White house by creating a victory garden during World War II. These victory gardens were first created to combat the food scarcity caused by the war. Although at the time Roosevelt had the garden created to encourage others to start their own, after World War II, the garden has been serving as a reminder to the hardships during the Second World War. Because there is architecture wherever I go, I want to understand the history behind each building, and how the structures of different buildings have changed over time. Following this I also want to create architectures of my own, as I love planning and creating things hands-on. 

By studying Architecture at Carnegie Mellon, I would be able to not only learn modern techniques in creating sustainable structures, but also in being able to learn about how architectures have changed over time, as I would be learning from experts at a prestigious school. This would not only quench my thirst for knowledge, but also in providing a medium in which I could express my ideas. To me, I see engineering and architecture as not just creating things using  mathematics, but also as a form of art. It seems similar to improvising in jazz, a hobby I have found through tutorils on YouTube. When improvising in jazz, the artist is given a structure in the form of a chord progression and groove, however, other than that, the artist is free to express their ideas such that it complements the chord progression. When creating architecture, the structure is the purpose in which the architecture is supposed to do, and like improvising, it must still perform its task of effectively performing its purpose. Similar to improvisation, the architect is still free to add their own ideas, which is very commonly a reflection of the current culture.

Because I love learning about the history behind different things, studying different cultures, and creating things as an expression of my ideas, I want to study architecture at Carnegie Mellon’s Pre-College program.

