An ideal game should allow the user to be entertained and relax, while allowing for strategies and should stimulate the user’s brain. This ideal game should be created in a way such that it allows the user to not only develop skills in the game, but also in the ways problems should be approached. In my opinion, Valorant fits this criteria of being an ideal game because it not only provides entertainment, but also develops strategies, such as noticing patterns in the opponent, playing mind games with the opponent, and learning to stay calm while under pressure.

In 8th grade, I received my first laptop after much negotiating with my parents. As soon as I opened it from its box, I opened YouTube and installed PyCharm. After watching a YouTube tutorial in creating a hello world program, followed by inputs and control statements, I created a short game in which the user had to guess a random number with the program telling the user ‘cold’, ‘hot’, or ‘very hot’ depending on how close the user is to the number, and the program printing ‘correct’ when the user gets the number correct. After an hour of debugging, mostly consisting of finding mismatched brackets and missing colons, the program worked as I had planned in my head. I felt a mix of accomplishment as well as a need to learn more. Following this, I met a similar friend who was also interested in writing programs. Throughout the span of four months we worked together to create a simple 2d game, in which we created everything from scratch: the music, sprites, items, parallax background, and the code. 

I want to participate in the NHSGA because I want to work in a team, guided by an expert in creating something I love making and using. Game development not only teaches a person about coding skills or designing characters or composing songs, but also in teamwork, as everyone must work together in order to create something great.

A new hobby that I have recently picked up is playing jazz piano. As the child of two parents that loves music, I grew up listening to symphonies and playing random notes on the piano. Although I had started learning piano in the first grade, I stopped practicing and taking lessons after moving to a foreign country. After listening to countless jazz standards on Spotify, as a new year’s resolution, I decided to finally try learning jazz on piano, as a piano provides the melody, harmony and bass. However, although jazz lead sheets look very simple, the artist is expected to improvise, or compose lines over the complex chords every time they play the song. After countless YouTube videos, and taking leaps of faith in playing notes outside of chords, I began learning how to voice lines in my head onto the piano, in which I felt that similar sense of accomplishment and need to learn more. 

